Introducing new ClusterAffinityRule commands (#3525)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-powershell-docs: docset/winserver2022-ps/failoverclusters/Remove-ClusterAffinityRule.md

---
description: Remove-ClusterAffinityRule
external help file: ClusterAffinityRule.cdxml-help.xml
Module Name: FailoverClusters
ms.date: 07/27/2023
online version: https://learn.microsoft.com/powershell/module/failoverclusters/remove-clusteraffinityrule?view=windowsserver2022-ps&wt.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Remove-ClusterAffinityRule
---

# Remove-ClusterAffinityRule

## SYNOPSIS
Removes a specified affinity rule.

## SYNTAX

### Query (cdxml) (Default)

```
Remove-ClusterAffinityRule [[-Name] <String[]>] [-CimSession <CimSession[]>]
 [-ThrottleLimit <Int32>] [-AsJob] [-PassThru] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InputObject (cdxml)

```
Remove-ClusterAffinityRule -InputObject <CimInstance[]> [-CimSession <CimSession[]>]
 [-ThrottleLimit <Int32>] [-AsJob] [-PassThru] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

> Removes a specified affinity rule.

Reviewer: Can we extend this descriptive text? Right now, it's the same as the synopsis.

## EXAMPLES

> ### Example 1

Reviewer: Missing descriptive title for the example.

```powershell
Remove-ClusterAffinityRule -Name AffinityRule1 -Cluster Cluster1
```

> This example removes the cluster affinity rule named AffinityRule1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example removes the cluster affinity rule named `AffinityRule1`.
```

## PARAMETERS

### -AsJob

Runs the cmdlet as a background job. Use this parameter to run commands that take a long time to
complete.

The cmdlet immediately returns an object that represents the job and then displays the command
prompt. You can continue to work in the session while the job completes. To manage the job, use the
`*-Job` cmdlets. To get the job results, use the
[Receive-Job](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113372) cmdlet.

> For more information about Windows PowerShell background jobs, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about PowerShell background jobs, see
```

[about_Jobs](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113251).

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CimSession

Runs the cmdlet in a remote session or on a remote computer. Enter a computer name or a session
object, such as the output of a [New-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227967)
or [Get-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227966) cmdlet. The default is the
current session on the local computer.

```yaml
Type: CimSession[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Session

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

> Specifies the input object that is used in a pipeline command.

Reviewer: Can we update this description to be specific to this cmdlet?

```yaml
Type: CimInstance[]
Parameter Sets: InputObject (cdxml)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Name

The name of the affinity rule to delete.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Query (cdxml)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

Returns an object representing the item with which you are working. By default, this cmdlet doesn't

> generate any output.

Reviewer: Can this be more specific to the cmdlet? What type of object is returned? Does it represent the deleted rule, or the cluster, or something else?

```yaml
Type: Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm

Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
The cmdlet isn't run.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### System.String[]

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance[]

## OUTPUTS

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance

> ### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance#root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule

Reviewer: Can we add descriptive text for the inputs/outputs, explaining when they're used and returned? The outputs doesn't include the none option, which is implied by the **PassThru** parameter.

complete.

The cmdlet immediately returns an object that represents the job and then displays the command
prompt. You can continue to work in the session while the job completes. To manage the job, use the
`*-Job` cmdlets. To get the job results, use the
[Receive-Job](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113372) cmdlet.

For more information about PowerShell background jobs, see
[about_Jobs](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113251).

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CimSession

Runs the cmdlet in a remote session or on a remote computer. Enter a computer name or a session
object, such as the output of a [New-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227967)
or [Get-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227966) cmdlet. The default is the
current session on the local computer.

```yaml
Type: CimSession[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Session

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

> Specifies the affinity rule object that is used in a pipeline command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the affinity rule object to remove, as returned by the `Get-ClusterAffinityRule` cmdlet.
```

```

### -PassThru

Returns an object representing the item with which you are working. By default, this cmdlet doesn't
generate any output.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ThrottleLimit

Specifies the maximum number of concurrent operations that can be established to run the cmdlet. If
this parameter is omitted or a value of `0` is entered, then PowerShell calculates an optimum
throttle limit for the cmdlet based on the number of CIM cmdlets that are running on the computer.
The throttle limit applies only to the current cmdlet, not to the session or to the computer.

```yaml
Type: Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Confirm

Prompts you for confirmation before running the cmdlet.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: cf

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -WhatIf

> Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs.
> The cmdlet isn't run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows what would happen if the cmdlet runs. The cmdlet isn't run.
```

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: wi

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### System.String[]

> When a string is piped to this cmdlet, the value is use as the name of the affinity rule to remove.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a string is piped to this cmdlet, the value is used as the name of the affinity rule to
remove.
```

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance[]

This cmdlet accepts CIM instance objects representing an affinity rule like those returned by the
[Get-ClusterAffinityRule](Get-ClusterAffinityRule.md) cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance#root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule

> The **Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance** object is a wrapper class that displays
> Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) objects. The command returns an object representing an
> affinity rule as a CIM instance within the `root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cmdlet returns an object representing an affinity rule as a CIM instance within the
`root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule` path.
```
